- [Narrator] Now that we've taken a look
at some of the APIs,
let's talk about the concept of scopes in a web application.
All the components that you have in your web app,
let's say servlets, filters, listeners, GSPs,
all of them talk to each other.
They have to talk to each other because they need
to work together in order to run the application.
So talking to each other
is basically by sharing information.
Now think about it.
Where do you want to save this information?
In the database?
No that's not a very good idea because if you really want
to have access to the information,
you need to make a database strip for it,
which is going to be a costly business.
And moreover, the information that you're trying to use
to communicate between the different components,
may really need to die out quickly.
Let's say I want to store some information
only for one particular request
and once that request is completed,
I need to get rid of that information.
So that's exactly where you have the facility
of scopes in a web application.
The information that you want to share across components
can be stored in scope objects in the form of attributes.
Now attributes could mean anything.
A string value, an integer,
a completely user defined object, anything.
There are primarily four scopes in a web application.
The first one is the request scope,
which is represented by the HTTPServletRequest
or of course, the ServletRequest object.
This scope is going to be alive until the response
of this request goes back to the client.
So you can store information in this request scope
in the form of an attribute,
and the information of the attribute is again
a key and a value pair.
The next scope is the session scope,
which is represented by the HTTPSession object.
This scope is going to be alive til the user either
quits the browser, or the user clicks on the logout button,
or maybe the session itself times out on the user's machine.
Please note that inside the session of course you can have
multiple requests spanned.
The next scope is the context scope,
which is of course sometimes known as the application scope,
represented by the ServletContext object.
We've already taken a look at this API
in one of our previous videos,
and we know that it is used to share information
across all the servlets.
Moreover, it can also help you to share information
in the form of attributes and pass it to any other
component of your web application.
The last scope is the page scope,
which is represented by the JSPContext object,
and it is going to be accessible from any JSP page
that creates that object.
Right, so those are the scopes that you have
in a web application and they are very useful
because there are very small bits of information
that you need to pass all the time for your functionalities.
Now that we have talked about the APIs and the scopes,
let's quickly understand the subtle differences
between parameters and attributes.
We have looked at both of these.
When we have talked about parameters,
we have seen them in the client data.
We have talked about attributes when we spoke about scopes.
Now the difference between them is
when parameters are only going to return you string values,
whereas attributes can help you return objects.
Attributes could be anything, a string, an integer,
a user defined object, anything.
But when you talk about parameters,
they're only string values.
The other thing is,
parameters cannot be set in those scopes.
The four scopes that we talked about a while ago,
you cannot set any parameters in the scope.
Whereas the attributes can definitely be set in scopes,
and that's exactly how you pass that information
across all the components.
One of the ways to retrieve a parameter
is through the getParameter API.
We have used this on a request object,
feed the name of the parameter
and you'll get its value in return.
If however you want to get the attribute information,
there is an API called get attribute
to which you pass a key,
and you get the value of the attribute.
If you want to set the attribute in any of the scopes,
you have a method called set attribute
which demands information in the form of key and value.
The value as I said would be any object.
And there's another way of setting parameters,
we have done that in the web.xml,
the inet parameters, the context parameters,
all of them can be configured in web.xml.
But parameters cannot be set in scopes like attributes.